# Theseus
This repository will cover the documentation for RoboCup Junior Maze team Theseus.
The repository is structured into 3 main categories: mechanical, electronics, and coding.

## Overview of system architecture
Our team participates in the RoboCup Junior Maze challenge, where the goal is to navigate throughout a randomized maze, detect victims, dispense rescue packages, and navigate the maze. From a high-level view, we utilize a hybrid control architecture, which is comprised of a Deliberative layer and a reactive layer. The Deliberative layer focuses on the high-level planning of the robot's movement, such as mapping and pathfinding, whilst the reactive layer focuses on keeping the robot's movement stable, and also to detect victims. 
## Electronics
Our team has experimented with a variety of different sensors and electronics, and we found that I2C sensors produce the best results due to the organizational advantages of utilizing a single communications protocol( as opposed to using many different protocols), as well as the reduction in the amount of wiring needed, saving time for more important work. We use the Vl53L0x TOF sensors due to its ease of programing and its accurate sensing. For color detection, we use the TCS34725 as it is much more reliable than other non-I2C color sensors( such as the OSEPP arduino color sensor which uses digital pins). Unlike other some other teams, which solely use distance sensors to accurate travel distances, we use magnetic encoders to measure the direction travelled. Last year, we used the MPU6050 gyro, but we switched it out in favor of the adafruit BNO055 9-dof IMU because of the MPU6050's tendency to drift( lack of accuracy) and also because the BNO055 returned angular position rather than angular velocity which needed to be integrated. However, the BNO055 has a 0-360 wraparound, which complicated programming a bit( as values can jump suddenly from 359 to 0).
## Code
The robot uses a object-oriented structure for its programming, ensuring the code is well organized and not messy. There are classes for motors(motors.h) and sensors(gyro.h) to package low-level functions for use in more complex programs. We also have a general use PID class(PID.h) for control of the robot. For its decision making, a state machine software structure for its main decision making. The states are centered around each tile, looping everytime it enters a new tile. There are 9 states:  SENSE_TILE,
UPDATE_MAP, PLAN_NEXT, VICTIM_DETECT,EXECUTE_MOVE, BOTCHED_TURN_RECOVERY, BACKPEDAL, PAUSE, RETURN, each triggering at the completion of the last state. The robot stores the data in each tile in a mazeTile object, which is a bitset to save precious memory space. The robot is initialized with a 20x20 array of empty mazeTile objects that is filled in as the robot traverses the maze. Our team has recognized the importance of being able to return to the start of the maze, as that would double the points scored by deploying rescue kits to victims. For the robot to do so, we implemented a BFS algorithm that allows the robot to find the shortest path to its starting point.

